Curriculum.md, before:

# CS Curriculum Textbooks and References

- [Computer Organisation and Architecture](#computer-organisation-and-architecture)
- [Theory of Computation](#theory-of-computation)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Data Communication](#data-communication)
- [Microprocessors and Microcontrollers](#microprocessors-and-microcontrollers)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)


## Computer Organisation and Architecture

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach** - David A. Patterson and John L. Hennessy [1]
2. **Computer Organisation and Design: The Hardware/Software Interface** - David A. Patterson and John L. Hennessy [2]
3. **Computer Organisation** - V. C. Hamacher, Zvonko G. Vranesic and Safwat G. Zaky [3]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Computer System Architecture** - M. Morris Mano [4]
2. **Computer Organization and Architecture: Designing for Performance** - William Stallings [5]
3. **Computer Architecture and Organisation** - John. P. Hayes [6]
4. **Computer Systems Design and Architecture** - Vincent P Heuring and Harry F Jordan
5. **Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Architecture** - Mostafa Abd-El-Barr and Hesham El-Rewini
6. **Computer Systems: a Programmer’s Perspective** - Randal E. Bryant and David R. O’Hallaron [7]
7. **Introduction to Computing Systems: From Bits and Gates to C and Beyond** - Patt and Patel [8]
8. **Structured Computer Organization** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum
9. **The Principles of Computer Hardware** - A. Clements
10. **Fundamentals of Computer Architecture** - M. Burrell
11. **Computer Architecture: Pipelined and Parallel Processor
Design** - Michael J. Flynn [9]

### Notes

There are plenty more books than listed and more courses than I'd care to link.

[1] - Widely regarded as an authoritative reference for Computer Organisation and Architecture. It is written by Turing Award winning Computer Scientists David Patterson and John Hennessy, but also assumes the reader is already well versed with concepts of Computer Architecture. For the beginner, [2] is widely recommended as _the_ book to start with. Used as a reference for

- [CS146 at Harvard](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~dbrooks/cs146-spring2004/)

[2] - [TYCS](https://teachyourselfcs.com/#architecture) recommends this excellent book (after going through **The Elements of Computing Systems** by Nishan and Schocken), as do I, for an introduction to the fundamental ideas of Computer Organisation and Architecture. It is extremely well written, has plenty of depth, and is built upon in [1] by the same authors. Used as a reference for

- [CS 312 at UMSL](http://www.cs.umsl.edu/~sanjiv/classes/cs312/)
- [ECE 411 at UI](https://ece.illinois.edu/academics/courses/profile/ECE411)
- [B62006Y-01 at ](http://english.ucas.ac.cn/index.php/admission/undergraduate/course-syllabuses/620-school-of-computer-and-control-engineering/4471-principles-of-computer-organization) (Note: Syllabus page only)
- [18-447 at CMU](http://www.ece.cmu.edu/~ece447/s13/doku.php?id=schedule) along with [8]
- [CS 3410 at Cornell](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs3410/2016fa/)
- [CS 61C at Berkeley](http://www-inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/%7Ecs61c/sp15/#Resources)

[4] - I didn't find this book stimulating at all.

[6] - I found this book incredibly dull and difficult to understand. Good luck.

[7] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 2505 at VT](http://courses.cs.vt.edu/~cs2505/spring2018/)
- [15-213/18-213 at CMU](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/%7E213/)
- [CS107 at Stanford](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs107/)

[9] - Used as the reference for

- [EE382 at Stanford](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee382/)

## Theory of Computation

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation** - John E. Hopcroft and Jeffrey D. Ullman (_The Cinderella Book_) [1]
2. **Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Michael Sipser [2]
3. **Elements of the Theory of Computation** - Harry R. Lewis & C. H. Papadimitriou

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Introduction to Formal Language and Computation** - Peter Linz [4]
2. **Theory of Computer Science: Automata, Language and Computation** - Mishra & Chandrasekharan
3. **A Text Book on Automata Theory** - Nasir & Sirmani
4. **Introduction to Languages and The Theory of Computation** - John Martin
5. **Computability, Complexity, and Languages: Fundamentals of Theoretical Computer Science** - Martin Davis, Ron Sigal, Elaine J. Weyuker
6. **An Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Eitan Gurari
7. **Theory of Computation** - James L. Hein
8. **Models of Computation and Formal Languages** - R. Gregory Taylor
9. **Essentials of Theoretical Computer Science** - F. D. Lewis
10. **Automata and Computability** - Dexter C. Kozen

### Notes

[1] - Used a reference textbook for many courses around the world. It closely matches what Jeff Ullman [teaches online at Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about). (Duh)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 3102 at UoV](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)
- [CS-251 at EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)
- [CS 3800 at NU](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)
- [CS39 at Dartmouth](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)

[4] - Used as the reference for

- [UPenn's CSC 4170-50](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)

[5] - Used as the reference for

- [AU's COMP 674](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php), a graduate level course.

## Operating Systems

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Operating System Concepts** - J. L. Peterson and A. Silberschatz (*The Dinosaur Book*) [1]
2. **Modern Operating Systems** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum
3. **Operating Systems, Internals and Design Principles** - William Stallings [2]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces** - Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau and Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau (*The Black Book*/*The Asteroid Book*/*The Comet Book*) [3]
2. **Schaum’s Outline of Operating Systems** - Archer J. Harris
3. **The Design of the UNIX operating system** - Maurice J. Bach
4. **Operating Systems: Principles and Practice** - Thomas Anderson and Michael Dahlin. [4]
5. **Operating Systems: A Concept-Based Approach** - D. M. Dhamdhere
6. **Operating Systems: A Modern Perspective** - Gary J. Nutt
7. **Operating Systems In Depth: Design and Programming** - Thomas W. Doeppner [5]
8. **Operating System Concepts Essentials** - Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne [6]

### Notes

For a more historical approach, [this Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science#Operating_systems) provides a list of a series of breakthroughs in Operating System Design. [A list of research papers on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings) may also be useful, and are the recommended readings for [CS 6210 at GATech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems).

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 385 at UIC](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)
- [CM's 15-410](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410/)
- [CS 347 at IITB](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html) where reading through MIT's [xv6 Operating System](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html) is mandatory.
- [Drexel's CS 543](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/) which again recommends reading **Linux Kernel Development**.
- [CS170 at UCSB](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [TOM-2.1-CS at UT](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)
- [CS 372 at UT Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/) although certain readings are from [1] as well.

[3] - [**OSTEP**](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/) was made as a companion for a [course on Operating Systems at UWISC](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/), which is freely available. The professors also recommend reading classic texts such as **Linux Kernel Development** and **The C Programming Language** (K&R). It is also used as a reference for [WPI's CS 3013](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/). Apart from being my personal recommendation for an introduction to Operating Systems, it is also recommended over at [Teach Yourself Computer Science](https://teachyourselfcs.com/£oeprating-systems)(_TYCS_).

[4] - Used as the reference for

- [SU's CS140](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)
- [Yale's CS422/522](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)

[5] - Used as the reference for
- [CS 161 at HU](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)

[6] - Basically a cheaper version of [1] recommended as the reference textbook for [CU's COMS W4118](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/).

## Data Communication

### Standard Textbooks

1. B. A. Forouzan, **Data Communication and Networking**, Tata McGraw Hill, 4th Ed, 2007.
2. A. S. Tanenbaum, **Computer Networks**, Prentice Hall of India, 4th Ed, 2006.

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. F. Halsall, **Data Communication, Computer Networks and Open Systems**, 4th Ed, AddisonWelsey, 2003.
2. B. A. Forouzan, **TCP/IP Protocol Suit**, Tata McGraw Hill, 3rd Ed, 2006.
3. W. Stallings, **Data and Computer Communications**, Prentice Hall of India, 8th Ed. 2007.
4. Leon-Garcia & I Widjaja, **Communication Networks, Fundamental Concepts & Key Architecture**, Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Ed, 2003

## Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

### Standard Textbooks

1. **The Intel Microprocessors - Architecture Programming And Interfacing** - Barry B. Brey [1]
2. **Microprocessor and Interfacing** - D. V. Hall
3. **Microprocessor Architecture, Programming, and Applications with the 8085** - Ramesh Gaonkar [5]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Microcomputer Systems - The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and Design** - Liu and Gibson
2. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems** - M. A. Mazidi, J. G. Mazidi and R. D. McKinlay
3. **Microprocessors: Principles and Applications** - A. Pal
4. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems : Using Assembly and C** - Muhammad Ali Mazidi
5. **Advanced Microprocessors and Peripherals** - A. K. Ray and K. M. Bhurchandi
6. **Fundamentals of Microprocessors And Microcontrollers** - Ram B.

### Notes

Online courses about Microprocessors are rather difficult to come by.

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [a course at UCF](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)

[5] - Used as the reference for

- [IITK's CS43003](http://www.facweb.iitkgp.ernet.in/~apal/files/microprocessor_04.pdf) (Note: Syllabus page only)

## Computer Networks

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach** - James Kurose and Keith Ross [1]
2. **Computer Networks – A System Approach** - Larry L. Peterson and Bruce S. Davie [2]
3. **Computer Networks** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum [3]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **TCP/IP protocol Suite** - Behrouz A. Forouzan
2. **Data and Computer Communication** - William Stallings [4]
3. **Data Communication, Computer Networks and Open Systems** - F. Halsall
4. **Data Communications and Networking** - Behrouz A. Forouzan [5]
5. **Internetworking with TCP/IP, Volume 1** - Douglas Comer
6. **TCP/IP Illustrated, Volume 1: The Protocols** - W. Richard Stevens [6]
7. **Unix Network Programming, Volume 1: The Sockets Networking API** - W. Richard Stevens [7]

### Notes

[GATech's CS 6250](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6250-computer-networks) has a list of useful papers [on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud819/resources). There are also many more amazing resources on the web.

[1] - It is recommended over at [TYCS](https://teachyourselfcs.com/#networking). Also used as the reference for

- [CS60 at Dartmouth](http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~campbell/cs60/) where texts on Shell Scripting like **A Practical Guide to Linux Commands, Editors, and Shell Programming** by Mark G. Sobell are also recommended
- [CS 356 at UT Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/lam/cs356/)
- [COS 461 at Princeton](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spring17/cos461/) along with [2]
- [CS244A at Stanford](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs244a/)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [15-441 at CMU](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~prs/15-441-F16/)
- [Computer Networks at OX](https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/teaching/courses/2017-2018/networks/) along with [3]
- [CS 640 at UWISC](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~pb/cs640.html)

[4] - Used as the reference for
- [CS 408 at SU](http://people.sabanciuniv.edu/levi/cs408/)

[5] - It is regarded as the standard textbook in the field [according to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science#Networking).

[6], [7] - Widely recommended in many courses listed above for additional reading, especially those at Princeton, Stanford and UWISC.

# References

## Websites

   [Theory of Computation - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_computation#Further_reading)  
   [Automata Theory - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automata_theory#Further_reading)  
   [Operating System - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_system#Futher_reading)  
   [Computer Network - Further Reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_network#Further_reading)  
   [List of Important Publications in Computer Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science)  
   [Best Reference Books - San Foundry](https://www.sanfoundry.com/best-reference-books-computer-science-engineering/)  
   [Teach Yourself CS](https://teachyourselfcs.coms)  

## Courses

- Computer Organisation and Architecture

   [CS 312 - University of Missouri-St. Louis](http://www.cs.umsl.edu/~sanjiv/classes/cs312/)  
   [CS146 - Harvard University](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~dbrooks/cs146-spring2004/)  
   [ECE 411 - University of Illinois](https://ece.illinois.edu/academics/courses/profile/ECE411)  
   [18-447 - Carnegie Mellon University](http://www.ece.cmu.edu/~ece447/s13/doku.php?id=schedule)  
   [CS 3410 - Cornell University](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs3410/2016fa/)  
   [CS 61C - University of California, Berkeley](http://www-inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/%7Ecs61c/sp15/#Resources)  
   [CS 2505 - Virginia Tech](http://courses.cs.vt.edu/~cs2505/spring2018/)  
   [15-213/18-213 - Carnegie Mellon University](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/%7E213/)  
   [CS107 - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs107/)  
   [EE382 - Stanford University](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee382/)  

- Theory of Computation

   [Automata Theory - Stanford Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about) (taken by **Jefferey D. Ullman** himself)  
   [CSC 4170-50 - University of Pennsylvania](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)  
   [CS3102 - University of Virginia](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)  
   [CS-251 - École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)  
   [CS 3800 - Northeastern University](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)  
   [CS39 - Dartmouth University](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)  
   [COMP 674 - Athabasca University](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php)  

- Operating Systems

   [CS 6210 - Georgia Tech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems)  
   [CS 385 - University of Illinois, Chicago](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)  
   [CS 347 - Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html)  
   [CS 543 - Drexel University](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/)  
   [CS170 - University of California, Santa Barbara](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)  
   [TOM-2.1-CS - University of Twente](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)  
   [CS 372 - University of Texas, Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/)  
   [CS-537 - University of Wisconsin-Madison](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/)  
   [CS3013 - Worchester Polytechnic Institute](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/)  
   [CS140 - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)  
   [CS422/522 - Yale University](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)  
   [CS 140 - Harvard University](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)  
   [COMS W4118 - Columbia University](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/)  

- Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

   [Fundamentals of Microprocessors - University of Central Florida](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)  
   [CS758: Building Microprocessors - University of Wisconsin](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~karu/courses/cs758/fall2011/wiki/index.php)  

- Computer Networks

   [CS 6250 - Georgia Institute of Technology](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6250-computer-networks)  
   [CS60 - Dartmouth University](http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~campbell/cs60/)  
   [CS 356 - University of Texas, Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/lam/cs356/)  
   [COS 461 - Princeton University](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spring17/cos461/)  
   [CS244A - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs244a/)  
   [15-441 - Carnegie Mellon University](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~prs/15-441-F16/)  
   [Computer Networks - Oxford University](https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/teaching/courses/2017-2018/networks/)  
   [CS 640 - University of Wisconsin-Madison](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~pb/cs640.html)  
   [CS 408 - Sabancı Üniversitesi](http://people.sabanciuniv.edu/levi/cs408/)  
   [CS 527 - University of British Columbia](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~bestchai/teaching/cs527_2015w1/index.html) is a PhD level course judging by appearance, so it has not been linked in the relevant section.


## Resources

   [CS Readings](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/CS_readings.html)
   [Xv6, a simple Unix-like teaching operating system - PDOS-MIT](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html)  
   [Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)  
   [Advanced Operating Systems Readings](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings)  
   [Microprocessors and their Architecture](https://www.byclb.com/TR/Tutorials/microprocessors/ch2_1.htm)  
   [Links to Intel  documentation](https://software.intel.com/en-us/forums/intel-isa-extensions/topic/285900)
   [Microprocessor Design - Wikibooks](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Microprocessor_Design)  

# Miscellaneous links

Commit message:

Add syllabus, notes and references.

Curriculum.md, after:

# CS Curriculum Textbooks and References

- [Computer Organisation and Architecture](#computer-organisation-and-architecture)
- [Theory of Computation](#theory-of-computation)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Data Communication](#data-communication)
- [Microprocessors and Microcontrollers](#microprocessors-and-microcontrollers)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)


## Computer Organisation and Architecture

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach** - David A. Patterson and John L. Hennessy [1]
2. **Computer Organisation and Design: The Hardware/Software Interface** - David A. Patterson and John L. Hennessy [2]
3. **Computer Organisation** - V. C. Hamacher, Zvonko G. Vranesic and Safwat G. Zaky [3]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Computer System Architecture** - M. Morris Mano [4]
2. **Computer Organization and Architecture: Designing for Performance** - William Stallings [5]
3. **Computer Architecture and Organisation** - John. P. Hayes [6]
4. **Computer Systems Design and Architecture** - Vincent P Heuring and Harry F Jordan
5. **Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Architecture** - Mostafa Abd-El-Barr and Hesham El-Rewini
6. **Computer Systems: a Programmer’s Perspective** - Randal E. Bryant and David R. O’Hallaron [7]
7. **Introduction to Computing Systems: From Bits and Gates to C and Beyond** - Patt and Patel [8]
8. **Structured Computer Organization** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum
9. **The Principles of Computer Hardware** - A. Clements
10. **Fundamentals of Computer Architecture** - M. Burrell
11. **Computer Architecture: Pipelined and Parallel Processor
Design** - Michael J. Flynn [9]

### Notes

There are plenty more books than listed and more courses than I'd care to link.

[1] - Widely regarded as an authoritative reference for Computer Organisation and Architecture. It is written by Turing Award winning Computer Scientists David Patterson and John Hennessy, but also assumes the reader is already well versed with concepts of Computer Architecture. For the beginner, [2] is widely recommended as _the_ book to start with. Used as a reference for

- [CS146 at Harvard](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~dbrooks/cs146-spring2004/)

[2] - [TYCS](https://teachyourselfcs.com/#architecture) recommends this excellent book (after going through **The Elements of Computing Systems** by Nishan and Schocken), as do I, for an introduction to the fundamental ideas of Computer Organisation and Architecture. It is extremely well written, has plenty of depth, and is built upon in [1] by the same authors. Used as a reference for

- [CS 312 at UMSL](http://www.cs.umsl.edu/~sanjiv/classes/cs312/)
- [ECE 411 at UI](https://ece.illinois.edu/academics/courses/profile/ECE411)
- [B62006Y-01 at ](http://english.ucas.ac.cn/index.php/admission/undergraduate/course-syllabuses/620-school-of-computer-and-control-engineering/4471-principles-of-computer-organization) (Note: Syllabus page only)
- [18-447 at CMU](http://www.ece.cmu.edu/~ece447/s13/doku.php?id=schedule) along with [8]
- [CS 3410 at Cornell](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs3410/2016fa/)
- [CS 61C at Berkeley](http://www-inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/%7Ecs61c/sp15/#Resources)

[4] - I didn't find this book stimulating at all.

[6] - I found this book incredibly dull and difficult to understand. Good luck.

[7] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 2505 at VT](http://courses.cs.vt.edu/~cs2505/spring2018/)
- [15-213/18-213 at CMU](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/%7E213/)
- [CS107 at Stanford](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs107/)

[9] - Used as the reference for

- [EE382 at Stanford](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee382/)

## Theory of Computation

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation** - John E. Hopcroft and Jeffrey D. Ullman (_The Cinderella Book_) [1]
2. **Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Michael Sipser [2]
3. **Elements of the Theory of Computation** - Harry R. Lewis & C. H. Papadimitriou

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Introduction to Formal Language and Computation** - Peter Linz [4]
2. **Theory of Computer Science: Automata, Language and Computation** - Mishra & Chandrasekharan
3. **A Text Book on Automata Theory** - Nasir & Sirmani
4. **Introduction to Languages and The Theory of Computation** - John Martin
5. **Computability, Complexity, and Languages: Fundamentals of Theoretical Computer Science** - Martin Davis, Ron Sigal, Elaine J. Weyuker
6. **An Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Eitan Gurari
7. **Theory of Computation** - James L. Hein
8. **Models of Computation and Formal Languages** - R. Gregory Taylor
9. **Essentials of Theoretical Computer Science** - F. D. Lewis
10. **Automata and Computability** - Dexter C. Kozen

### Notes

[1] - Used a reference textbook for many courses around the world. It closely matches what Jeff Ullman [teaches online at Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about). (Duh)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 3102 at UoV](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)
- [CS-251 at EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)
- [CS 3800 at NU](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)
- [CS39 at Dartmouth](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)

[4] - Used as the reference for

- [UPenn's CSC 4170-50](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)

[5] - Used as the reference for

- [AU's COMP 674](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php), a graduate level course.

## Operating Systems

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Operating System Concepts** - J. L. Peterson and A. Silberschatz (*The Dinosaur Book*) [1]
2. **Modern Operating Systems** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum
3. **Operating Systems, Internals and Design Principles** - William Stallings [2]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces** - Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau and Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau (*The Black Book*/*The Asteroid Book*/*The Comet Book*) [3]
2. **Schaum’s Outline of Operating Systems** - Archer J. Harris
3. **The Design of the UNIX operating system** - Maurice J. Bach
4. **Operating Systems: Principles and Practice** - Thomas Anderson and Michael Dahlin. [4]
5. **Operating Systems: A Concept-Based Approach** - D. M. Dhamdhere
6. **Operating Systems: A Modern Perspective** - Gary J. Nutt
7. **Operating Systems In Depth: Design and Programming** - Thomas W. Doeppner [5]
8. **Operating System Concepts Essentials** - Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne [6]

### Notes

For a more historical approach, [this Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science#Operating_systems) provides a list of a series of breakthroughs in Operating System Design. [A list of research papers on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings) may also be useful, and are the recommended readings for [CS 6210 at GATech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems).

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 385 at UIC](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)
- [CM's 15-410](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410/)
- [CS 347 at IITB](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html) where reading through MIT's [xv6 Operating System](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html) is mandatory.
- [Drexel's CS 543](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/) which again recommends reading **Linux Kernel Development**.
- [CS170 at UCSB](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [TOM-2.1-CS at UT](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)
- [CS 372 at UT Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/) although certain readings are from [1] as well.

[3] - [**OSTEP**](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/) was made as a companion for a [course on Operating Systems at UWISC](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/), which is freely available. The professors also recommend reading classic texts such as **Linux Kernel Development** and **The C Programming Language** (K&R). It is also used as a reference for [WPI's CS 3013](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/). Apart from being my personal recommendation for an introduction to Operating Systems, it is also recommended over at [Teach Yourself Computer Science](https://teachyourselfcs.com/£oeprating-systems)(_TYCS_).

[4] - Used as the reference for

- [SU's CS140](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)
- [Yale's CS422/522](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)

[5] - Used as the reference for
- [CS 161 at HU](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)

[6] - Basically a cheaper version of [1] recommended as the reference textbook for [CU's COMS W4118](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/).

## Data Communication
<!-- Data transmission fundamentals: historical overview; time/frequency representation of data signals; elements of a communications link; definition of key terms; factors affecting system design, Binary and multi-level signaling: information transfer rate; calculation of channel capacity; bandwidth efficiency, Baseband data transmission: the problem of inter symbol interference; achieving a Nyquist channel response; recovery of symbols from noise; bit error rate performance for baseband data systems, Bandpass digital modulation: binary modulation schemes (eg ASK, FSK, PSK); multi-level digital modulation (e.g. M-ary ASK, M-ary FSK, M-ary PSK, QAM), Coding theory and practice: source coding; channel coding; block coding; convolutional coding; combined coding and modulation, Multi-user digital modulation techniques such as frequency division multiple access (FDMA); time division multiple access (TDMA); code division multiple access (CDMA); combined multiple access systems; Error detection and correction, Digital transmission fundamental  -->
### Standard Textbooks

1. **Data Communication and Networking** - B. A. Forouzan
2. **Computer Networks** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Data Communication, Computer Networks and Open Systems** - Fred Halsall
2. **TCP/IP Protocol Suite** - B. A. Forouzan
3. **Data and Computer Communications** - William Stallings [1]
4. **Communication Networks, Fundamental Concepts & Key Architecture** - Leon-Garcia and I. Widjaja

### Notes

- Please help. I found nothing on the web with similar syllabus, which has been commented out. See source code.

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 3413 at UTSA](http://www.cs.utsa.edu/~korkmaz/teaching/cs3413/)

## Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

### Standard Textbooks

1. **The Intel Microprocessors - Architecture Programming And Interfacing** - Barry B. Brey [1]
2. **Microprocessor and Interfacing** - D. V. Hall
3. **Microprocessor Architecture, Programming, and Applications with the 8085** - Ramesh Gaonkar [5]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Microcomputer Systems - The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and Design** - Liu and Gibson
2. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems** - M. A. Mazidi, J. G. Mazidi and R. D. McKinlay
3. **Microprocessors: Principles and Applications** - A. Pal
4. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems : Using Assembly and C** - Muhammad Ali Mazidi
5. **Advanced Microprocessors and Peripherals** - A. K. Ray and K. M. Bhurchandi
6. **Fundamentals of Microprocessors And Microcontrollers** - Ram B.

### Notes

Online courses about Microprocessors are rather difficult to come by.

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [a course at UCF](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)

[5] - Used as the reference for

- [IITK's CS43003](http://www.facweb.iitkgp.ernet.in/~apal/files/microprocessor_04.pdf) (Note: Syllabus page only)

## Computer Networks

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach** - James Kurose and Keith Ross [1]
2. **Computer Networks – A System Approach** - Larry L. Peterson and Bruce S. Davie [2]
3. **Computer Networks** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum [3]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **TCP/IP protocol Suite** - Behrouz A. Forouzan
2. **Data and Computer Communication** - William Stallings [4]
3. **Data Communication, Computer Networks and Open Systems** - F. Halsall
4. **Data Communications and Networking** - Behrouz A. Forouzan [5]
5. **Internetworking with TCP/IP, Volume 1** - Douglas Comer
6. **TCP/IP Illustrated, Volume 1: The Protocols** - W. Richard Stevens [6]
7. **Unix Network Programming, Volume 1: The Sockets Networking API** - W. Richard Stevens [7]

### Notes

[GATech's CS 6250](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6250-computer-networks) has a list of useful papers [on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud819/resources). There are also many more amazing resources on the web.

[1] - It is recommended over at [TYCS](https://teachyourselfcs.com/#networking). Also used as the reference for

- [CS60 at Dartmouth](http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~campbell/cs60/) where texts on Shell Scripting like **A Practical Guide to Linux Commands, Editors, and Shell Programming** by Mark G. Sobell are also recommended
- [CS 356 at UT Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/lam/cs356/)
- [COS 461 at Princeton](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spring17/cos461/) along with [2]
- [CS244A at Stanford](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs244a/)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [15-441 at CMU](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~prs/15-441-F16/)
- [Computer Networks at OX](https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/teaching/courses/2017-2018/networks/) along with [3]
- [CS 640 at UWISC](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~pb/cs640.html)

[4] - Used as the reference for
- [CS 408 at SU](http://people.sabanciuniv.edu/levi/cs408/)

[5] - It is regarded as the standard textbook in the field [according to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science#Networking).

[6], [7] - Widely recommended in many courses listed above for additional reading, especially those at Princeton, Stanford and UWISC.

# References

## Websites

   [Theory of Computation - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_computation#Further_reading)  
   [Automata Theory - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automata_theory#Further_reading)  
   [Operating System - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_system#Futher_reading)  
   [Computer Network - Further Reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_network#Further_reading)  
   [List of Important Publications in Computer Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science)  
   [Best Reference Books - San Foundry](https://www.sanfoundry.com/best-reference-books-computer-science-engineering/)  
   [Teach Yourself CS](https://teachyourselfcs.coms)  

## Courses

- Computer Organisation and Architecture

   [CS 312 - University of Missouri-St. Louis](http://www.cs.umsl.edu/~sanjiv/classes/cs312/)  
   [CS146 - Harvard University](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~dbrooks/cs146-spring2004/)  
   [ECE 411 - University of Illinois](https://ece.illinois.edu/academics/courses/profile/ECE411)  
   [18-447 - Carnegie Mellon University](http://www.ece.cmu.edu/~ece447/s13/doku.php?id=schedule)  
   [CS 3410 - Cornell University](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs3410/2016fa/)  
   [CS 61C - University of California, Berkeley](http://www-inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/%7Ecs61c/sp15/#Resources)  
   [CS 2505 - Virginia Tech](http://courses.cs.vt.edu/~cs2505/spring2018/)  
   [15-213/18-213 - Carnegie Mellon University](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/%7E213/)  
   [CS107 - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs107/)  
   [EE382 - Stanford University](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee382/)  

- Theory of Computation

   [Automata Theory - Stanford Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about) (taken by **Jefferey D. Ullman** himself)  
   [CSC 4170-50 - University of Pennsylvania](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)  
   [CS3102 - University of Virginia](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)  
   [CS-251 - École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)  
   [CS 3800 - Northeastern University](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)  
   [CS39 - Dartmouth University](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)  
   [COMP 674 - Athabasca University](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php)  

- Operating Systems

   [CS 6210 - Georgia Tech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems)  
   [CS 385 - University of Illinois, Chicago](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)  
   [CS 347 - Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html)  
   [CS 543 - Drexel University](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/)  
   [CS170 - University of California, Santa Barbara](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)  
   [TOM-2.1-CS - University of Twente](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)  
   [CS 372 - University of Texas, Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/)  
   [CS-537 - University of Wisconsin-Madison](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/)  
   [CS3013 - Worchester Polytechnic Institute](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/)  
   [CS140 - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)  
   [CS422/522 - Yale University](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)  
   [CS 140 - Harvard University](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)  
   [COMS W4118 - Columbia University](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/)  

- Data Communications

   [CS 3413 - University of Texas at San Antonio](http://www.cs.utsa.edu/~korkmaz/teaching/cs3413/)

- Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

   [Fundamentals of Microprocessors - University of Central Florida](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)  
   [CS758: Building Microprocessors - University of Wisconsin](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~karu/courses/cs758/fall2011/wiki/index.php)  

- Computer Networks

   [CS 6250 - Georgia Institute of Technology](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6250-computer-networks)  
   [CS60 - Dartmouth University](http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~campbell/cs60/)  
   [CS 356 - University of Texas, Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/lam/cs356/)  
   [COS 461 - Princeton University](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spring17/cos461/)  
   [CS244A - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs244a/)  
   [15-441 - Carnegie Mellon University](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~prs/15-441-F16/)  
   [Computer Networks - Oxford University](https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/teaching/courses/2017-2018/networks/)  
   [CS 640 - University of Wisconsin-Madison](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~pb/cs640.html)  
   [CS 408 - Sabancı Üniversitesi](http://people.sabanciuniv.edu/levi/cs408/)  
   [CS 527 - University of British Columbia](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~bestchai/teaching/cs527_2015w1/index.html) is a PhD level course judging by appearance, so it has not been linked in the relevant section.


## Resources

   [CS Readings](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/CS_readings.html)
   [Xv6, a simple Unix-like teaching operating system - PDOS-MIT](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html)  
   [Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)  
   [Advanced Operating Systems Readings](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings)  
   [Microprocessors and their Architecture](https://www.byclb.com/TR/Tutorials/microprocessors/ch2_1.htm)  
   [Links to Intel  documentation](https://software.intel.com/en-us/forums/intel-isa-extensions/topic/285900)
   [Microprocessor Design - Wikibooks](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Microprocessor_Design)  

# Miscellaneous links
