readme.md, before:

# README

This repository is to create a comprehensive list of textbooks and useful references for a Computer Science and Engineering Curriculum. This is an ongoing effort, and contributions are not welcome at the time. As this is in a very early stage, most of the structure and/or layout has not been decided and will be changed as seen fit. As of now, content below is also present in its separate file labeled Curriculum.

# CS Curriculum, Textbooks and References

Being an avid book reader, I have found it rather difficult to find a comprehensive list of textbooks to use for reference and for self learning. I have, therefore, set out to create and share it for all who wish to find the same. I have also linked courses that I could find across the web, most often the links from the first two pages of Googling, so that one may find a relevant guide to the particular course. All linked course pages often have one more additional references should the reader wish to engage in more depth with the topic at hand. This list is by no means comprehensive, though it is an eventual target. There are also video lectures of many of courses that may or may not be linked which are better located at [GitHub link for CS video courses](). The current default branch is `dev`, which will be built upon, whereas `master` will eventually contain a complete curriculum.

## Theory of Computation

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation** - John E. Hopcroft and Jeffrey D. Ullman (_The Cinderella Book_) [1]
2. **Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Michael Sipser [2]
3. **Elements of the Theory of Computation** - Harry R. Lewis & C. H. Papadimitriou

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Introduction to Formal Language and Computation** - Peter Linz [4]
2. **Theory of Computer Science: Automata, Language and Computation** - Mishra & Chandrasekharan
3. **A Text Book on Automata Theory** - Nasir & Sirmani
4. **Introduction to Languages and The Theory of Computation** - John Martin
5. **Computability, Complexity, and Languages: Fundamentals of Theoretical Computer Science** - Martin Davis, Ron Sigal, Elaine J. Weyuker
6. **An Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Eitan Gurari
7. **Theory of Computation** - James L. Hein
8. **Models of Computation and Formal Languages** - R. Gregory Taylor
9. **Essentials of Theoretical Computer Science** - F. D. Lewis
10. **Automata and Computability** - Dexter C. Kozen

### Notes

[1] - Used a reference textbook for many courses around the world. It closely matches what Jeff Ullman [teaches online at Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about). (Duh)

[2] - Used as a reference book for

- [CS 3102 at UoV](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)
- [CS-251 at EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)
- [CS 3800 at NU](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)
- [CS39 at Dartmouth](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)

[4] - Used as a reference book for

- [UPenn's CSC 4170-50](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)

[5] - Used as a reference book for

- [AU's COMP 674](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php), a graduate level course.

## Operating Systems

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Operating System Concepts** - J. L. Peterson & A. Silberschatz (*The Dinosaur Book*) [1]
2. **Modern Operating Systems** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum
3. **Operating Systems, Internals and Design Principles** - William Stallings [2]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces** - Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau and Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau (*The Black Book*/*The Asteroid Book*/*The Comet Book*) [3]
2. **Schaum’s Outline of Operating Systems** - Archer J. Harris
3. **The Design of the UNIX operating system** - Maurice J. Bach
4. **Operating Systems: Principles and Practice** - Thomas Anderson and Michael Dahlin. [4]
5. **Operating Systems: A Concept-Based Approach** - D. M. Dhamdhere
6. **Operating Systems: A Modern Perspective** - Gary J. Nutt
7. **Operating Systems In Depth: Design and Programming** - Thomas W. Doeppner [5]
8. **Operating System Concepts Essentials** - Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne [6]

### Notes

For a more historical approach, [this Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science#Operating_systems) provides a list of a series of breakthroughs in Operating System Design. [A list of research papers on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings) may also be useful, and are the recommended readings for [CS 6210 at GATech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems).

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 385 at UIC](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)
- [CM's 15-410](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410/)
- [CS 347 at IITB](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html) where reading through MIT's [xv6 Operating System](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html) is mandatory.
- [Drexel's CS 543](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/) which again recommends reading **Linux Kernel Development**.
- [CS170 at UCSB](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [TOM-2.1-CS at UT](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)
- [CS 372 at UT Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/) although certain readings are from [1] as well.

[3] - [**OSTEP**](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/) was made as a companion for a [course on Operating Systems at UWISC](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/), which is freely available. The professors also recommend reading classic texts such as **Linux Kernel Development** and **The C Programming Language** (K&R). It is also used as a reference for [WPI's CS 3013](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/). It is also my personal recommendation for an introduction to Operating Systems.

[4] - Used as the reference for

- [SU's CS140](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)
- [Yale's CS422/522](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)

[5] - Used as the reference for
- [CS 161 at HU](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)

[6] - Basically a cheaper version of [1] recommended as the reference textbook for [CU's COMS W4118](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/).

## Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

### Standard Textbooks

1. **The Intel Microprocessors - Architecture Programming And Interfacing** - Barry B. Brey [1]
2. **Microprocessor and Interfacing** - D. V. Hall
3. **Microprocessor Architecture, Programming, and Applications with the 8085** - Ramesh Gaonkar [5]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Microcomputer Systems - The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and Design** - Liu & Gibson
2. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems** - M. A. Mazidi, J. G. Mazidi and R. D. McKinlay
3. **Microprocessors: Principles and Applications** - A. Pal
4. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems : Using Assembly and C** - Muhammad Ali Mazidi
5. **Advanced Microprocessors and Peripherals** - A. K. Ray and K. M. Bhurchandi
6. **Fundamentals of Microprocessors And Microcontrollers** - Ram B.

### Notes

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [a course at UCF](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)

[5] - Used as the reference for

- [IITK's CS43003](http://www.facweb.iitkgp.ernet.in/~apal/files/microprocessor_04.pdf) (Note: Syllabus page only)

## Computer Networks

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Computer Networks – A System Approach** - L. L. Peterson and B. S. Davie
2. **Computer Networks** - A. S. Tanenbaum

## Alternative/Supplementary

1. **TCP/IP protocol Suite** - B. A. Forouzan
2. **Data Communication, Computer Networks and Open Systems** - F. Halsall

# References

## Websites

   [Theory of Computation - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_computation#Further_reading)  
   [Automata Theory - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automata_theory#Further_reading)  
   [List of Important Publications in Computer Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science)  
   [Best Reference Books - San Foundry](https://www.sanfoundry.com/best-reference-books-computer-science-engineering/)  
   [Operating Systems - Teach Yourself CS](https://teachyourselfcs.com/#operating-systems)  

## Courses

- Theory of Computation

   [Automata Theory - Stanford Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about) (taken by **Jefferey D. Ullman** himself)  
   [CSC 4170-50 - University of Pennsylvania](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)  
   [CS3102 - University of Virginia](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)  
   [CS-251 - École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)  
   [CS 3800 - Northeastern University](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)  
   [CS39 - Dartmouth University](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)  
   [COMP 674 - Athabasca University](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php)  

- Operating Systems

   [CS 6210 - Georgia Tech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems)  
   [CS 385 - University of Illinois, Chicago](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)  
   [CS 347 - Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html)  
   [CS 543 - Drexel University](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/)  
   [CS170 - University of California, Santa Barbara](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)  
   [TOM-2.1-CS - University of Twente](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)  
   [CS 372 - University of Texas, Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/)  
   [CS-537 - University of Wisconsin, Madison](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/)  
   [CS3013 - Worchester Polytechnic Institute](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/)  
   [CS140 - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)  
   [CS422/522 - Yale University](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)  
   [CS 140 - Harvard University](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)  
   [COMS W4118 - Columbia University](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/)  

- Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

   [Fundamentals of Microprocessors - University of Central Florida](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)  
   [CS758: Building Microprocessors - University of Wisconsin](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~karu/courses/cs758/fall2011/wiki/index.php)  


## Resources

   [CS Readings](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/CS_readings.html)
   [Xv6, a simple Unix-like teaching operating system - PDOS-MIT](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html)  
   [Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)  
   [Advanced Operating Systems Readings](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings)  
   [Microprocessors and their Architecture](https://www.byclb.com/TR/Tutorials/microprocessors/ch2_1.htm)  
   [Links to Intel  documentation](https://software.intel.com/en-us/forums/intel-isa-extensions/topic/285900)
   [Microprocessor Design - Wikibooks](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Microprocessor_Design)

# Miscellaneous links

Commit message:

Add book from teachyourselfcs and fix one link from OS

readme.md, after:

# README

This repository is to create a comprehensive list of textbooks and useful references for a Computer Science and Engineering Curriculum. This is an ongoing effort, and contributions are not welcome at the time. As this is in a very early stage, most of the structure and/or layout has not been decided and will be changed as seen fit. As of now, content below is also present in its separate file labeled Curriculum.

# CS Curriculum, Textbooks and References

Being an avid book reader, I have found it rather difficult to find a comprehensive list of textbooks to use for reference and for self learning. I have, therefore, set out to create and share it for all who wish to find the same. I have also linked courses that I could find across the web, most often the links from the first two pages of Googling, so that one may find a relevant guide to the particular course. All linked course pages often have one more additional references should the reader wish to engage in more depth with the topic at hand. This list is by no means comprehensive, though it is an eventual target. There are also video lectures of many of courses that may or may not be linked which are better located at [GitHub link for CS video courses](). The current default branch is `dev`, which will be built upon, whereas `master` will eventually contain a complete curriculum.

## Theory of Computation

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation** - John E. Hopcroft and Jeffrey D. Ullman (_The Cinderella Book_) [1]
2. **Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Michael Sipser [2]
3. **Elements of the Theory of Computation** - Harry R. Lewis & C. H. Papadimitriou

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Introduction to Formal Language and Computation** - Peter Linz [4]
2. **Theory of Computer Science: Automata, Language and Computation** - Mishra & Chandrasekharan
3. **A Text Book on Automata Theory** - Nasir & Sirmani
4. **Introduction to Languages and The Theory of Computation** - John Martin
5. **Computability, Complexity, and Languages: Fundamentals of Theoretical Computer Science** - Martin Davis, Ron Sigal, Elaine J. Weyuker
6. **An Introduction to the Theory of Computation** - Eitan Gurari
7. **Theory of Computation** - James L. Hein
8. **Models of Computation and Formal Languages** - R. Gregory Taylor
9. **Essentials of Theoretical Computer Science** - F. D. Lewis
10. **Automata and Computability** - Dexter C. Kozen

### Notes

[1] - Used a reference textbook for many courses around the world. It closely matches what Jeff Ullman [teaches online at Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about). (Duh)

[2] - Used as a reference book for

- [CS 3102 at UoV](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)
- [CS-251 at EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)
- [CS 3800 at NU](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)
- [CS39 at Dartmouth](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)

[4] - Used as a reference book for

- [UPenn's CSC 4170-50](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)

[5] - Used as a reference book for

- [AU's COMP 674](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php), a graduate level course.

## Operating Systems

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Operating System Concepts** - J. L. Peterson & A. Silberschatz (*The Dinosaur Book*) [1]
2. **Modern Operating Systems** - Andrew S. Tanenbaum
3. **Operating Systems, Internals and Design Principles** - William Stallings [2]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces** - Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau and Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau (*The Black Book*/*The Asteroid Book*/*The Comet Book*) [3]
2. **Schaum’s Outline of Operating Systems** - Archer J. Harris
3. **The Design of the UNIX operating system** - Maurice J. Bach
4. **Operating Systems: Principles and Practice** - Thomas Anderson and Michael Dahlin. [4]
5. **Operating Systems: A Concept-Based Approach** - D. M. Dhamdhere
6. **Operating Systems: A Modern Perspective** - Gary J. Nutt
7. **Operating Systems In Depth: Design and Programming** - Thomas W. Doeppner [5]
8. **Operating System Concepts Essentials** - Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne [6]

### Notes

For a more historical approach, [this Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science#Operating_systems) provides a list of a series of breakthroughs in Operating System Design. [A list of research papers on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings) may also be useful, and are the recommended readings for [CS 6210 at GATech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems).

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [CS 385 at UIC](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)
- [CM's 15-410](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410/)
- [CS 347 at IITB](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html) where reading through MIT's [xv6 Operating System](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html) is mandatory.
- [Drexel's CS 543](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/) which again recommends reading **Linux Kernel Development**.
- [CS170 at UCSB](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)

[2] - Used as the reference for

- [TOM-2.1-CS at UT](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)
- [CS 372 at UT Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/) although certain readings are from [1] as well.

[3] - [**OSTEP**](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/) was made as a companion for a [course on Operating Systems at UWISC](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/), which is freely available. The professors also recommend reading classic texts such as **Linux Kernel Development** and **The C Programming Language** (K&R). It is also used as a reference for [WPI's CS 3013](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/). Apart from being my personal recommendation for an introduction to Operating Systems, it is also recommended over at [Teach Yourself Computer Science](https://teachyourselfcs.com).

[4] - Used as the reference for

- [SU's CS140](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)
- [Yale's CS422/522](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)

[5] - Used as the reference for
- [CS 161 at HU](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)

[6] - Basically a cheaper version of [1] recommended as the reference textbook for [CU's COMS W4118](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/).

## Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

### Standard Textbooks

1. **The Intel Microprocessors - Architecture Programming And Interfacing** - Barry B. Brey [1]
2. **Microprocessor and Interfacing** - D. V. Hall
3. **Microprocessor Architecture, Programming, and Applications with the 8085** - Ramesh Gaonkar [5]

### Alternative/Supplementary

1. **Microcomputer Systems - The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and Design** - Liu & Gibson
2. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems** - M. A. Mazidi, J. G. Mazidi and R. D. McKinlay
3. **Microprocessors: Principles and Applications** - A. Pal
4. **The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems : Using Assembly and C** - Muhammad Ali Mazidi
5. **Advanced Microprocessors and Peripherals** - A. K. Ray and K. M. Bhurchandi
6. **Fundamentals of Microprocessors And Microcontrollers** - Ram B.

### Notes

[1] - Used as the reference for

- [a course at UCF](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)

[5] - Used as the reference for

- [IITK's CS43003](http://www.facweb.iitkgp.ernet.in/~apal/files/microprocessor_04.pdf) (Note: Syllabus page only)

## Computer Networks

### Standard Textbooks

1. **Computer Networks – A System Approach** - L. L. Peterson and B. S. Davie
2. **Computer Networks** - A. S. Tanenbaum

## Alternative/Supplementary

1. **TCP/IP protocol Suite** - B. A. Forouzan
2. **Data Communication, Computer Networks and Open Systems** - F. Halsall
3. **Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach** - James Kurose, Keith Ross

# References

## Websites

   [Theory of Computation - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_computation#Further_reading)  
   [Automata Theory - Further reading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automata_theory#Further_reading)  
   [List of Important Publications in Computer Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science)  
   [Best Reference Books - San Foundry](https://www.sanfoundry.com/best-reference-books-computer-science-engineering/)  
   [Teach Yourself CS](https://teachyourselfcs.coms)  

## Courses

- Theory of Computation

   [Automata Theory - Stanford Lagunita](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+Fall2016/about) (taken by **Jefferey D. Ullman** himself)  
   [CSC 4170-50 - University of Pennsylvania](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cit596/notes/dave/syllabus.html)  
   [CS3102 - University of Virginia](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/cs3102/)  
   [CS-251 - École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne EPFL](http://theory.epfl.ch/cs251/Home.html)  
   [CS 3800 - Northeastern University](https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs3800f17wc/policies.html)  
   [CS39 - Dartmouth University](https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~ac/Teach/CS39-Spring18/)  
   [COMP 674 - Athabasca University](http://www.athabascau.ca/syllabi/comp/comp674.php)  

- Operating Systems

   [CS 6210 - Georgia Tech](https://www.omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6210-advanced-operating-systems)  
   [CS 385 - University of Illinois, Chicago](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~jbell/CourseNotes/OperatingSystems/)  
   [CS 347 - Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~mythili/teaching/cs347_autumn2016/index.html)  
   [CS 543 - Drexel University](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~jjohnson/2012-13/fall/cs543/)  
   [CS170 - University of California, Santa Barbara](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~rich/class/cs170/)  
   [TOM-2.1-CS - University of Twente](https://wwwhome.ewi.utwente.nl/~pieter/CS-OS/)  
   [CS 372 - University of Texas, Austin](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/witchel/372/)  
   [CS-537 - University of Wisconsin, Madison](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/)  
   [CS3013 - Worchester Polytechnic Institute](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~cshue/cs3013/)  
   [CS140 - Stanford University](http://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/cs140-spring18/index.php)  
   [CS422/522 - Yale University](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/)  
   [CS 140 - Harvard University](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~cs161/)  
   [COMS W4118 - Columbia University](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~jae/4118/)  

- Microprocessors and Microcontrollers

   [Fundamentals of Microprocessors - University of Central Florida](http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~ahossam/teaching/microp/)  
   [CS758: Building Microprocessors - University of Wisconsin](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~karu/courses/cs758/fall2011/wiki/index.php)  


## Resources

   [CS Readings](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/CS_readings.html)
   [Xv6, a simple Unix-like teaching operating system - PDOS-MIT](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html)  
   [Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)  
   [Advanced Operating Systems Readings](https://www.udacity.com/wiki/ud156-readings)  
   [Microprocessors and their Architecture](https://www.byclb.com/TR/Tutorials/microprocessors/ch2_1.htm)  
   [Links to Intel  documentation](https://software.intel.com/en-us/forums/intel-isa-extensions/topic/285900)
   [Microprocessor Design - Wikibooks](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Microprocessor_Design)

# Miscellaneous links
